### Virtual Network Editor
`Inside VMWare Workstation Pro we need to change the virtual NIC settings to fit the IPAM schema of this lab.`  
[Refer here for IPAM schema](https://github.com/nickbruggen90/LabsVol8021Q/blob/main/Project%201.0%3A%20pfSense%20%2B%20NetOps%20Foundation/IPAM%20Schema.md)  
[Refer here for Virtual Network Editor Guide](https://github.com/nickbruggen90/LabsVol8021Q/blob/main/Project%201.0%3A%20pfSense%20%2B%20NetOps%20Foundation/00.%20vmware_workstationpro_initial.md)  
(NOTE: A /29 subnet is the smallest VMWare Workstation allows)

---

### VM Creation
1. First we will create the pfSense VM with VMWare Workstation. Use the official pfSense CE .iso release. Choose the following configuration for set-up:
```
2 NICs are needed:
  - NIC 1: NAT
  - NIC 2: VMNet1
  - NIC 3: VMNet2
  - NIC 4: VMNet4
  - NIC 5: VMNet5
  - NIC 6: VMNet3
2 GB RAM
20 GB storage space
1 processor, 2 cores
```
2. Once the VM boots up, pfSense will ask input for configuration options. The ones you need to pay attention to are:
```
Auto UFS
MBR partition scheme
```

---

### pfSense Configuration
1. After the installation and initial bootup, pfSense CLI will prompt you will a numbered menu.
2. Choose *`Option 2` to "Set Interface(s) IP Address" → LAN → no DHCP → static IP of `192.168.83.226/29`*
3. This will allow you to access the pfSense GUI. Inside your host machine browser access 192.168.83.226
4. pfSense default username is `admin` and password is `pfsense`

---

### pfSense Interface Configuration
1. At the top drop down menu *Interface → Assignments*
2. You will see WAN and LAN already assigned, and the option to `+ Add` more. It will populate at "OPT1".
3. Click "OPT1" to change the settings
4. ✅*Check "Enable Interface"* and name the interface accordingly. In this instance we will name it "BR1_LNX_SRV" for Branch 1,Linux Servers".
5. IPv4 Configuration Type: `Static IPv4`
6. IPv4 Address: `192.168.83.1/28`
7. Save
8. Repeat this process for each interface/subnet, refering to the IPAM schema

---



